frogs were an important part of planet
Earth's jungles program and the crew
traveled extensively to film them
I've just come back for Central America
in one small area in Panama there were
over 50 different species of frogs and
they are very vulnerable because they
are able to absorb substances through
their skins their more skins and thus
are easily infected by fungi and there's
a fungus moving up Panama which by next
year we'll certainly have killed another
two species frogs are becoming extinct
throughout Central America but what
significance does that have what did the
inhabitants of Costa Rica think the loss
of a species should be a sad thing for
everyone we already lost very emblematic
frog of Monteverde the the golden toad
and there was the only place on earth
that existed and it was a symbol of that
forest proud forest
he's lost he's lost forever the golden
toad like so many other species that
have become extinct were hit by the
fungus so what is it has it always been
around there's been a lot of forensic
work obviously to say well where has
this fungus come from and it's now been
traced back to the african clawed toad
and it looks as if toads from south
africa are exported in the 1930s in very
large numbers to hospitals in the
Western world because they're used as a
biological indicator of human pregnancy
and then presumably some have escaped
and once the fungus has got into the
water systems we're now still seeing the
effects of its spread worldwide whole
frog communities are crashing and on a
global scale out of something like 6,000
frog species altogether now nearly
one-third are classified as endangered
you